# Post-Tropical Cyclone HAZard model (PTCHAZ)

The Post-Tropical Cyclone HAZard model (PTCHAZ) is a statistical model for assessing post-tropical cyclone hazard. The model uses the synthetic TC track and intensity generated by an existing TC hazard model (e.g., CHAZ: https://github.com/cl3225/CHAZ) as a starting point. The model can also be used for other TC hazard models easily. The model consists of three components that represent the complete PTC life cycle. These components include a logistic regression model for PTC identification, an auto-regressive (AR) model for predicting PTC intensity, and a probability-based model for PTC lysis.

The PTCHAZ model is developed using MATLAB and Python 3. The model can be run as follows:

## 1. Prepare data for model training and prediction
   
   preprocess_logistic_v1.m: prepare data used in training the PTC identification model
   
   preprocess_AR_v1.m: prepare data used in training the intensity model
   
   CHAZ_PTC_track4pre_v11.m: prepare synthetic track for next preprocessing step
   
   CHAZ_PTC_preprocess_v11_1.m: prepare environmental factors for running the model
   
## 2. Train the model
 
   logistic_regression.ipynb: train PTC identification model
   
   CHAZ_stepwise_v11.m: train intensity model, the 3- and 8-predictor configurations can be selected here.
   
   CHAZ_obs_dissp_v1.m: train lysis model
   
## 3. PTC identification
 
   CHAZ_ET_v1.m
   
## 4. Predict PTC intensity and lysis.
 
   CHAZ_PTC_intensity_v13test.m

## Note

   Parameters/coefficients for PTC identification can be found in CHAZ_ET_v1.m; for PTC intensity model, see AR_trainingset_v11.mat; for PTC lysis model, see gev_params_interp_by_lat.mat.
   
